conformance/fhir-core-r4b/definitions/terminology/README.md, before:

This directory contains HL7 CodeSystems from https://terminology.hl7.org that are referenced from R4B ValueSets.
The CodeSystems are from https://terminology.hl7.org/hl7.terminology.r4.tgz version 3.1.0, downloaded March 9, 2022.

The CodeSystems to include were computed using the following commands against the R4B valuesets.json file downloaded 2021-12-08

1. CodeSystems included from R4B valuesets
```
$ java -jar fhir-path-*-cli.jar --path "descendants().select(system).value" --file valuesets.json --throw-error | sort | uniq | grep terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem

http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/FDI-surface
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-reason-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication-error
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/admit-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-causality-assess
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-causality-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-outcome
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-seriousness
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-severity
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/allergyintolerance-clinical
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/allergyintolerance-verification
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/applicability
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/appointment-cancellation-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/article-url-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-contribution-instance-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-contribution-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-relationship-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/attribute-estimate-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/audit-entity-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/audit-event-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/basic-resource-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-network
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-term
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-unit
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/can-push-updates
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/certainty-rating
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/certainty-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/characteristic-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/chargeitem-billingcodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/chromosome-human
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-artifact-classifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-classification-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-status-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-summary-style
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-abstract-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-classification-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-part-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-status-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-medium
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claim-exception
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claim-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claimcareteamrole
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claiminformationcategory
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/common-tags
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-not-done-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-topic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/composite-measure-scoring
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-clinical
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-ver-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentaction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentcategorycodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentpolicycodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentscope
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contactentity-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/container-cap
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contract-content-derivative
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contract-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractaction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractactorrole
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractsignertypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractsubtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contracttermsubtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contracttermtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-style
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-class
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-copay-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-selfpay
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverageeligibilityresponse-ex-auth-support
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/data-absent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-topic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-use
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/designation-usage
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/device-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/diagnosis-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/dicom-audit-lifecycle
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/diet
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/directness
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/discharge-disposition
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/dose-rate-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/encounter-special-arrangements
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/encounter-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/endpoint-connection-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/endpoint-payload-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/entformula-additive
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/episodeofcare-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-classifier-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-quality
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-report-section
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-report-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-USCLS
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-benefitcategory
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-claimsubtype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-coverage-financial-exception
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosis-on-admission
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosisrelatedgroup
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosistype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-paymenttype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-procedure-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-programcode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-providerqualification
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-relatedclaimrelationship
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-revenue-center
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-serviceplace
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-tooth
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-visionprescriptionproduct
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/extra-security-role-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/failure-action
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/flag-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/focus-characteristic-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/forms-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/fundsreserve
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-achievement
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-priority
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/handling-condition
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/history-absent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-evaluation-dose-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-evaluation-dose-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-funding-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-origin
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-program-eligibility
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-recommendation-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-subpotent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/insurance-plan-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/iso-21089-lifecycle
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/library-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-empty-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-example-use-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-order
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/location-physical-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-data-usage
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-group-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-improvement-notation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-population
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-scoring
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-stratifier-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-supplemental-data-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measurereport-stratifier-value-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/med-admin-perform-function
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/media-modality
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/media-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-admin-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-admin-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-statement-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationdispense-performer-function
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationdispense-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-characteristic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-package-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-course-of-therapy
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/message-reasons-encounter
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/message-transport
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/missingtoothreason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/modifiers
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/name-assembly-order
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/need
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/object-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/observation-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/organization-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/participant-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payeetype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payment-adjustment-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payment-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/paymentstatus
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/plan-definition-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/primary-source-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/processpriority
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/program
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/provenance-participant-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/published-in-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/push-type-available
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/reason-medication-given
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/recommendation-strength
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/referencerange-meaning
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/rejection-criteria
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-objective-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-phase
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-prim-purp-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-reason-stopped
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/restful-security-service
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/risk-probability
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/security-source-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-provision-conditions
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-referral-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/smart-capabilities
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/special-values
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/statistic-model-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/statistic-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/study-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscriber-relationship
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscription-error
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscription-search-modifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/substance-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supply-item-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supply-kind
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supplyrequest-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/synthesis-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-operation-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-profile-destination-types
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-profile-origin-types
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/title-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/usage-context-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0074
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0131
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0136
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0203
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0373
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0443
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0444
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActMood
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActReason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActSite
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-AddressUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-DataOperation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-DocumentCompletion
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EncounterSpecialCourtesy
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNamePartQualifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNamePartQualifierR2
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNameUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-GTSAbbreviation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-MaritalStatus
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-NullFlavor
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ObservationInterpretation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationFunction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationMode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationType
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ProbabilityDistributionType
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RoleClass
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RoleCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RouteOfAdministration
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-TimingEvent
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-process
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/variable-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/verificationresult-communication-method
```

2. CodeSystems associated with terminology.hl7.org ValueSets that bound to from R4B definitions with strength > 'example'
```
$ java -jar fhir-path-*-cli.jar --path "entry.resource.differential.element.binding.where(strength != 'example').valueSet.value" --file profiles-resources.json --throw-error | grep terminology | sort | uniq

http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0116
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0276
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0493
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0916
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActConsentDirective
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActEncounterCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActIncidentCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-Confidentiality|2.0.0|2.0.0
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-PurposeOfUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ServiceDeliveryLocationRoleType
```

3. Other CodeSystems used by existing IBM FHIR Server tests

```
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-IdentifierScope
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ObservationValue
```

Commit message:

Update to the R4B release candidate
- Updated fhir-tools and regenerated the model
- Updated fhir-examples-generator and regenerated the examples
- Updated spec examples in fhir-examples and adjusted expectations
- Updated fhir-core-r4b (including hl7/fhir/core/410 to
hl7/fhir/core/430)

Signed-off-by: Lee Surprenant <lmsurpre@us.ibm.com>

conformance/fhir-core-r4b/definitions/terminology/README.md, after:

This directory contains HL7 CodeSystems from https://terminology.hl7.org that are referenced from R4B ValueSets.
The CodeSystems are from https://terminology.hl7.org/hl7.terminology.r4.tgz version 3.1.0, downloaded March 9, 2022.

The CodeSystems to include were computed using the following commands against the R4B downloads in this project at fhir-core-r4b/definitions/R4B.

Hint to download the latest fhir-path cli jar to current dir:

```
$ mvn dependency:copy -DoutputDirectory=. -Dartifact=com.ibm.fhir:fhir-path:LATEST:jar:cli
```

1. CodeSystems included from R4B valuesets

```
$ java -jar fhir-path-*-cli.jar --path "descendants().select(system).value" --file valuesets.json --throw-error | sort | uniq | grep terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem

http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/FDI-surface
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-reason-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/action-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication-error
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adjudication-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/admit-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-causality-assess
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-causality-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-outcome
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-seriousness
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/adverse-event-severity
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/allergyintolerance-clinical
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/allergyintolerance-verification
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/applicability
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/appointment-cancellation-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/article-url-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-contribution-instance-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-contribution-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/artifact-relationship-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/attribute-estimate-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/audit-entity-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/audit-event-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/basic-resource-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-network
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-term
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/benefit-unit
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/can-push-updates
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/certainty-rating
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/certainty-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/characteristic-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/chargeitem-billingcodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/chromosome-human
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-artifact-classifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-classification-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-status-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/citation-summary-style
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-abstract-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-classification-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-part-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-artifact-status-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/cited-medium
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claim-exception
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claim-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claimcareteamrole
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/claiminformationcategory
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/common-tags
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-not-done-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/communication-topic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/composite-measure-scoring
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-clinical
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/condition-ver-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentaction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentcategorycodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentpolicycodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/consentscope
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contactentity-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/container-cap
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contract-content-derivative
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contract-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractaction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractactorrole
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractsignertypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contractsubtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contracttermsubtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contracttermtypecodes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-style
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/contributor-summary-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-class
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-copay-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverage-selfpay
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/coverageeligibilityresponse-ex-auth-support
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/data-absent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-topic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/definition-use
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/designation-usage
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/device-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/diagnosis-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/dicom-audit-lifecycle
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/diet
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/directness
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/discharge-disposition
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/dose-rate-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/encounter-special-arrangements
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/encounter-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/endpoint-connection-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/endpoint-payload-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/entformula-additive
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/episodeofcare-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-classifier-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-quality
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-report-section
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/evidence-report-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-USCLS
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-benefitcategory
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-claimsubtype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-coverage-financial-exception
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosis-on-admission
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosisrelatedgroup
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-diagnosistype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-paymenttype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-procedure-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-programcode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-providerqualification
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-relatedclaimrelationship
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-revenue-center
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-serviceplace
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-tooth
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/ex-visionprescriptionproduct
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/extra-security-role-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/failure-action
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/flag-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/focus-characteristic-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/forms-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/fundsreserve
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-achievement
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/goal-priority
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/handling-condition
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/history-absent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-evaluation-dose-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-evaluation-dose-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-funding-source
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-origin
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-program-eligibility
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-recommendation-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/immunization-subpotent-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/insurance-plan-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/iso-21089-lifecycle
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/library-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-empty-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-example-use-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/list-order
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/location-physical-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-data-usage
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-group-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-improvement-notation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-population
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-scoring
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-stratifier-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-supplemental-data-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measure-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/measurereport-stratifier-value-example
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/med-admin-perform-function
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/media-modality
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/media-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-admin-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-admin-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medication-statement-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationdispense-performer-function
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationdispense-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-characteristic
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-package-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationknowledge-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-course-of-therapy
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/medicationrequest-status-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/message-reasons-encounter
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/message-transport
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/missingtoothreason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/modifiers
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/name-assembly-order
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/need
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/object-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/observation-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/organization-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/participant-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payeetype
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payment-adjustment-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/payment-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/paymentstatus
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/plan-definition-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/primary-source-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/processpriority
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/program
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/provenance-participant-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/published-in-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/push-type-available
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/reason-medication-given
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/recommendation-strength
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/referencerange-meaning
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/rejection-criteria
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-objective-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-phase
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-prim-purp-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/research-study-reason-stopped
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/restful-security-service
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/risk-probability
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/security-source-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-provision-conditions
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-referral-method
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/service-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/smart-capabilities
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/special-values
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/statistic-model-code
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/statistic-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/study-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscriber-relationship
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscription-error
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/subscription-search-modifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/substance-category
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supply-item-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supply-kind
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/supplyrequest-reason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/synthesis-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-operation-codes
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-profile-destination-types
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/testscript-profile-origin-types
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/title-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/usage-context-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0074
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0131
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0136
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0203
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0373
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0443
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0444
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActMood
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActReason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActSite
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-AddressUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-DataOperation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-DocumentCompletion
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EncounterSpecialCourtesy
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNamePartQualifier
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNamePartQualifierR2
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-EntityNameUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-GTSAbbreviation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-MaritalStatus
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-NullFlavor
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ObservationInterpretation
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationFunction
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationMode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ParticipationType
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ProbabilityDistributionType
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RoleClass
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RoleCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RouteOfAdministration
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-TimingEvent
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-process
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-status
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/validation-type
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/variable-role
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/verificationresult-communication-method
```

2. CodeSystems associated with terminology.hl7.org ValueSets that bound to from R4B definitions with strength > 'example'

```
$ java -jar fhir-path-*-cli.jar --path "entry.resource.differential.element.binding.where(strength != 'example').valueSet.value" --file profiles-resources.json --throw-error | grep terminology | sort | uniq

http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0116
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0276
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0493
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v2-0916
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActConsentDirective
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActEncounterCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ActIncidentCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-Confidentiality|2.0.0|2.0.0
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-PurposeOfUse
http://terminology.hl7.org/ValueSet/v3-ServiceDeliveryLocationRoleType
```

which becomes

```
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0116
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0276
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0493
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v2-0916
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActCode
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ActReason
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-Confidentiality
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-RoleCode
```

3. Other CodeSystems used by existing IBM FHIR Server tests

```
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-IdentifierScope
http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/v3-ObservationValue
```
