build/README.md, before:

# Build and Test the LinuxForHealth FHIR Server

This `build` directory contains scripts for executing LinuxForHealth FHIR Continous Integration (CI) tests.

Alternatively, LinuxForHealth FHIR can be built manually from the root of the project using Maven:
```sh
mvn clean install -f fhir-examples

mvn clean install -f fhir-parent
```

The latter command will execute the unit tests for each module.
If you want to skip the tests, add `-DskipTests` to the end of the command.

Once the project is built, the LinuxForHealth FHIR Server container image can be built from the Dockerfile under fhir-install:
```sh
docker build fhir-install -t linuxforhealth/fhir-server
```

## Running the integration tests locally

Steps to install the server to the local filesystem at the root of the project and execute the tests.
These commands are expected to work on MacOS and/or Linux. For Windows, use the PowerShell (.ps1) variants instead.

### Prerequisites

- Build the project manually using the Maven commands listed above. This will produce the fhir-server-distribution.zip used
to install the server.

### Run

From the root of the project (aka the "WORKSPACE"):
1. Set up and start the server 
    ```sh
    build/pre-integration-test.sh
    ```

2. Run the tests. 
    ```sh
    mvn test -DskipTests=false -f fhir-server-test
    ```

3. Collect logs and clean up
    ```sh
    build/post-integration-test.sh
    ```

## Running the integraiton tests using docker compose

Steps to run a dockerized LinuxForHealth FHIR Server and associated services.
The specific services to run are defined in the docker-compose.yml files within the corresponding "environment" directories:

Directory Name | Environment Description
--- | ---
minio | FHIR Server with a PostgreSQL backend, MinIO for bulk import/export, and NATS notifications
azurite | FHIR Server with a PostgreSQL backend, payload offloading to Azurite, and Azurite for bulk import/export

The commands are expected to work on MacOS and/or Linux.

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
- `linuxforhealth/fhir-server:latest` (built from the fhir-install module as described above)

### Run

From the root of the project (aka the "WORKSPACE"):
1. Set up and start the containers 
    ```sh
    build/pre-integration-test-docker.sh ${environment}
    ```
    
   Note: If you are testing NATS notifications, invoke the NATS subscriber via `node fhir-server-test/src/test/nodejs/nats-subscriber`.  If this is your first time, install the dependencies first by installing [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (if not already installed) and running `(cd fhir-server-test/src/test/nodejs && npm install)`.
    
2. Run the tests. 
    ```sh
    mvn test -DskipTests=false -f fhir-server-test
    ```

3. Collect logs and tear down the containers
    ```sh
    build/post-integration-test-docker.sh ${environment}
    ```

### Details

The `pre-integration-test-docker.sh` script will:
1. Configure volume mounts under the specified directory name and add the data and configuration needed for the tests.
2. Bring up the containers and configure the database.
3. Wait for the fhir-server healthcheck to pass and then exit.

----

FHIR® is the registered trademark of HL7 and is used with the permission of HL7.

Commit message:

issue-1406 - changes for bulkdata web application split up to a separate deployable
Signed-off-by: PrasannaHegde1 <phegde@merative.com>

build/README.md, after:

# Build and Test the LinuxForHealth FHIR Server

This `build` directory contains scripts for executing LinuxForHealth FHIR Continous Integration (CI) tests.

Alternatively, LinuxForHealth FHIR can be built manually from the root of the project using Maven:
```sh
mvn clean install -f fhir-examples

mvn clean install -f fhir-parent
```

The latter command will execute the unit tests for each module.
If you want to skip the tests, add `-DskipTests` to the end of the command.

Once the project is built, the LinuxForHealth FHIR Server container image can be built from the Dockerfile under fhir-install:
```sh
docker build fhir-install -t linuxforhealth/fhir-server
```

The LinuxForHealth FHIR Bulkdata Server container image can be built from the Dockerfile under fhir-install-bulkdata:
```sh
docker build fhir-install-bulkdata -t linuxforhealth/fhir-bulkdata-server
```

## Running the integration tests locally

Steps to install the server to the local filesystem at the root of the project and execute the tests.
These commands are expected to work on MacOS and/or Linux. For Windows, use the PowerShell (.ps1) variants instead.

### Prerequisites

- Build the project manually using the Maven commands listed above. This will produce the fhir-server-distribution.zip used
to install the server.

### Run

From the root of the project (aka the "WORKSPACE"):
1. Set up and start the server 
    ```sh
    build/pre-integration-test.sh
    ```

2. Run the tests. 
    ```sh
    mvn test -DskipTests=false -f fhir-server-test
    ```

3. Collect logs and clean up
    ```sh
    build/post-integration-test.sh
    ```

## Running the integraiton tests using docker compose

Steps to run a dockerized LinuxForHealth FHIR Server and associated services.
The specific services to run are defined in the docker-compose.yml files within the corresponding "environment" directories:

Directory Name | Environment Description
--- | ---
minio | FHIR Server with a PostgreSQL backend, MinIO for bulk import/export, and NATS notifications
azurite | FHIR Server with a PostgreSQL backend, payload offloading to Azurite, and Azurite for bulk import/export

The commands are expected to work on MacOS and/or Linux.

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com)
- `linuxforhealth/fhir-server:latest` (built from the fhir-install module as described above)
- - `linuxforhealth/fhir-bulkdata-server:latest` (built from the fhir-install-bulkdata module as described above)

### Run

From the root of the project (aka the "WORKSPACE"):
1. Set up and start the containers 
    ```sh
    build/pre-integration-test-docker.sh ${environment}
    ```
    
   Note: If you are testing NATS notifications, invoke the NATS subscriber via `node fhir-server-test/src/test/nodejs/nats-subscriber`.  If this is your first time, install the dependencies first by installing [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (if not already installed) and running `(cd fhir-server-test/src/test/nodejs && npm install)`.
    
2. Run the tests. 
    ```sh
    mvn test -DskipTests=false -f fhir-server-test
    ```

3. Collect logs and tear down the containers
    ```sh
    build/post-integration-test-docker.sh ${environment}
    ```

### Details

The `pre-integration-test-docker.sh` script will:
1. Configure volume mounts under the specified directory name and add the data and configuration needed for the tests.
2. Bring up the containers and configure the database.
3. Wait for the fhir-server healthcheck to pass and then exit.

----

FHIR® is the registered trademark of HL7 and is used with the permission of HL7.
